Let's start this section by a discussion
of variables which are one of the core
concepts in programing, we use variables
to store data in computer's memory.
Here are a few examples.
I'm going to define a variable called
students underlying count
and setting it to a thousand.
When we run this program,
Python interpreter will allocate some
memory and store this number
thousand in that memory space.
Then it will have this variable
reference, that memory location.
So this variable is just like
a label for that memory location.
We can use this variable or this label
anywhere in our program to get access
to that memory location
and the data stored there.
So now if we print students count
and run our program,
we will get the number thousand.
So this is the basic of variables.
Now, what kind of data can we
store in computer's memory?
Well, we have several different
kinds of data in this section.
We're going to look at the built
in primitive types in Python.
Primitive types can be numbers,
booleans and strings.
Let me show you.
So here we have a whole number.
We refer to this as
an integer in programing.
We can also have numbers
with a decimal point.
Let's take a look.
So rating we set this
to four point nine nine.
This is what we call a float
or a floating point number.
And this terminology is
not specific to Python.
In the future, when you learn a new
programing language,
you're going to hear these terms again.
Now, let's take a look at an example
of a boolean. Is published,
we set this to true or false?
These are examples of boolean values
in programing, so boolean values can
either be true or false and these are
exactly like yes and no in English.
Later in the course you will learn
that we'll use this boolean values
to make decisions in our programs.
For example, if the user is an admin user,
z
perhaps we want to give
them extra permissions.
So these are the boolean values. now take
into account that Python is a case
sensitive language, which means lowercase,
and uppercase characters
have different meanings.
So Boolean values should always start with
a capital letter like what you see here.
If we type false or FALSE, these are not
accepted boolean values in Python. only
What you see here is
a valid boolean value.
So false or true?
And finally, let's take a look
at an example of a string.
So course the name was said this
to a string like Python programing.
So a string, as I told
you before, is like text.
Whenever you want to work with text
in your programs, you need
to surround your text with quotes.
So these are the basics of variables.